From mnw21@cam.ac.uk Thu Apr 17 14:52:17 2008
Date: Thu, 17 Apr 2008 14:52:16 +0100 (BST)
From: Matthew Wakeling <mnw21@cam.ac.uk>
To: Wayne Kovsky <wkovsky@softwaresummit.com>
Subject: Re: Colorado Software Summit 2008:  Call for Papers

On Mon, 14 Apr 2008, Wayne Kovsky wrote:
> Matthew, any progress from your management?

Wayne, thanks for your patience. I finally got the go-ahead today. I thought
I would present two different types of talk this time - one "teaching" talk,
and one "introducing" talk. For the teaching talk, I thought I would go
right back to basics and cover performance engineering from scratch, not
assuming any previous knowledge, and from an academic viewpoint. I think
it's good for programmers to understand the principles involved before they
go anywhere near performance optimisation. For my "introducing" talk, I'd
like to give the system I have been working on for the last five and a half
years a proper introduction to the world outside biology research. As a real
serious object-oriented data warehousing tool, I think that would go down
fairly well at CSS. So, here are my draft abstracts:

Performance engineering from scratch:

Despite computers continually getting faster, there is still great demand
for performance optimisation in software. This talk will go right back to
basics and tackle the theory behind performance engineering, and then go
through key Java features and classes that can help. We will cover various
gotchas, established algorithms, useful patterns, and how to make use of the
increasingly common multi-CPU machines efficiently. We will also go through
the performance characteristics of various systems, like CPUs, caches,
memory, discs, networks, and databases, and show how to best make use of
them. If you have a degree in computing, you will probably have seen some of
this already, but it may be helpful to have a refresher, aimed specifically
at Java.

InterMine: A data warehousing tool, ready for prime time:

InterMine is an open source object-oriented database system and tools,
developed in the University of Cambridge to support a large genetics data
warehouse system and data mining project. After six years of development,
InterMine is a mature, powerful, performance-optimised system suitable for
use in other projects. This talk introduces the InterMine system, and shows
how to create a database, import data, query it, and easily set up a web
application providing access. We will also take a peek under the hood at
some of the underlying technology.

And my profile:

Matthew Wakeling is a software developer for the FlyMine group in the
Department of Genetics, in the University of Cambridge, England. Brought up
in Kenya, he has a Master of Arts in computing from Cambridge, and has been
employed in various computing projects in Cambridge since. He has a
particular interest in core database functionality and performance
optimisation, and wrote most of the InterMine database system that FlyMine
uses. In his spare time, Matthew enjoys gardening, music, photography, and
wandering up mountains, preferably in the snow.

Email: matthew@flymine.org

I have attached a photo.

I have the support of my employer. Sorry about the delay. Let me know what
you think.

Matthew

-- 
I wouldn't be so paranoid if you weren't all out to get me!!
